Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
developer express, become a UI
superhero with dev express controls
and libraries. Deliver elegant.net solutions
that address customer needs today
by leveraging your existing knowledge,
you can build next generation
touch enabled solutions for tomorrow,
you can download your free
30 day trial@dxdothanselminutes.com. That's dx.hanselminutes.com.
from hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel
minutes, all weekly discussion with
web developer and the technologist
and Scott Hanselman. This is
Lawrence Ryan announcing show number four
44. In this episode, Scott
talks with Amir Rashaun about
what it's like to have
the number one app in
the Apple app store. Hi,
this is Scott Hanselman. This
is another episode of Hansel
minutes, and I'm talking with
Amir Rashaan about his number
one app store application, a
dark room. Thanks for chatting
with me. Hey Scott, how's
it going? Pretty good. Congratulations
on your success. I think
a a top app store
app is certainly a grounds
for congratulations. Thank you. Thank
you very much. This is
pretty exciting. And I think
what's, what's exciting about talking
with you today. Isn't just
that you are now a
number one, you know, a
person who can claim a
number one app, but that
you're really, really transparent about
it. And that's why you
offered to talk with me
today. Yeah, actually, well, I
guess the way it started
out was, you know, develop
the app and it wasn't
doing very well at all,
but I still wanted a
log. Like everything happened, everything
that happened. There's so many
people that hold that information
so close to them and
I really don't understand why.
So I just kept a
developer log and starting all
it's been, I guess it's
14 months long now. So
the developer logs really long
and I've just been continuing
to update it. And every
observation I've made with regards
to the app store, just
put it on there. Do
you think that people are
just like either embarrassed or
they're like, they don't want
to give up how much
money they made because they
think people might be envious
of their money. I don't
know real well, first of
all, I guess the way
that I've set up the
app, I haven't made a
lot of money on the
app. Even you would think
that being the number one
app, you've like, you hear
that you have arrived, right?
Right. I'm pretty much assuming
you've arrived. No, I have
not arrived, but, but yeah,
I really don't know what
it is. I think they
somehow think it's like a
market secret or, or what,
but I just think that,
you know, having that information
available to everyone will dissuade
those that want to make
an app strictly for the
money or maybe inspire others
to make an app and
potentially do something with it.
Yeah. Now we'll get, we'll
get into the details. But
I think that it does
speak to the issue of
what they call the long
tail. It's a really long
tail, like there's angry birds.
And then there's the occasional,
multi-week long number one bestselling
app like yourself and then
there's everybody else. And I
guess some of the stats
have been saying that if
you make an app, if
you make a couple of
grand, you're pretty lucky person.
Yes, I would. I would
agree with that. I think,
I think if you can
make three to four grand
in a year, I think
that's really good. Why does
it people, what do people
make it feel like it's
a gold mine? Like it's
a gold rush, like, you
know, get your app and
make your million cause no,
one's making a million bucks.
Yeah. You know, maybe originally
it was maybe originally it
was really easy for independent
developers to, you know, to
make it in the app
store. But the moment that,
you know, AAA companies start
seeing the app store and
start marketing and investing all
that information. I mean all
that money into growing their
own applications. And that's when
the independent developer, you know,
loses out because that's, those
are the apps that are
going to make the top
top rings. Okay. So we
don't need to go too
much into the details about
like the story about your
app, but it's a really
interesting story and that it
is a text based app.
It's kind of a unusual,
and it is extremely Spartan
if I may in its
UI. Yes. So this is
my first iOS app. So
when I came across the,
the web based version of
the darkroom, so it was
actually a web based game
and I poured it over
to iOS and added my
own storyline and pacing and
all that other good stuff.
So I saw the game,
I was like, Oh, Hey,
this is, this is a
great really fun game. And
you know, it's not a
three D two D crazy
game. I could, I could
learn I was development with
this. And, you know, maybe
just bring it, bring it
over to iOS and half
haven't happened in the app
store. So it was kind
of like one of those
fun little projects. So I
emailed Michael Michael Townsend. He's the guy
that created the web version
of the game. And I
asked him, Hey, can I
port this over? And he
said, yes. So it was
like, Oh, easy project. And
my entire app is made
out of text buttons, text
boxes, buttons, labels, and progress
bars. It's really funny when
recruiters contact me and say,
Hey, we saw you had
the number one app and
I go, have you played
it? Because I think you
might want someone with a
little bit more experience. And
I remember when you sent
it to me, you sent
me a preview early on
and you were like, check
this out. And I have
to say, I was like,
yeah, you know, I mean,
you were really cool about
it, but I would have
to say that I did
not peg it as a
number one app. I said,
Hey, really cool of you
to give me a coupon,
let me play it and
try it out. But you
know, good luck, you know,
go with God, Neither did
I, neither did I don't
worry Forward. And you have
21,113 ratings. And it is
a four and a half,
almost five star reviewed site.
And people are just going
on perfection in an app.
My proud first review of
an app, people are saying
this game is perfect in
every way possible and emotional
and beautiful story that gets
better as you play it.
That's pretty hardcore for an
app that has a button
and a text box. Yes,
yes it is. I thought
they were joking, but it
is pretty intense as it's
a big scifi, Epic that
starts with lighting a fire.
Yeah. And actually when, so
what happened was that, you
know, the app pretty much,
I deployed it in November
and for like four or
five months, it did absolutely
nothing. And then, and then
out of nowhere, it went
viral in the UK. It
just, it went from 1500th
ranked app to the number
one app overall in two
days. How I have no
idea, I have speculations with
regards to how that happened.
It had media coverage back
in, I guess, November and
December of the year before.
So like three months earlier
from edit editors that were
in the UK, but I
couldn't really correlate it outside
of that. And I looked
online to see if anyone
was talking about it in
the UK. I think it
got mentioned the sun, but
that was after it hit
the number one spot. So
I think it was just
like a butterfly effect. Someone
told someone and those people
told the right people and
suddenly it jumped up. But
as soon as that happened,
it became the number one
app. And suddenly it wasn't
just an in the RPG
category, it was the number
one app. And then you
see all these reviews like,
Oh, this is my first
review ever. And this app
is incredible moving. It changed
my life. And then the
regular people, I guess those
people that aren't entire PG
started downloading the app and
they were like, this is
a scam. So I would
get, I would get, I
would get reviews. One star
reviews. I would say this
app is a scam. He
bought all the reviews that
are there. It's impossible. There's
no way that this app
could be anything, anything more,
it's just one button. And
it's ridiculous. Do you do
anything as far as PR
or telling reviewers to go
and review this or was
this entirely luck and organic?
So I did, I did
a, quite a bit of
promotion on a Reddit and
touch our arcade. So I
had a re a lot
of good engagement there. So
throughout this, I'd like to
give like tips to people
that want to do apps.
And one of these, one
of the tips that I
would like to say is
that when you, when you
have an app and you're
looking for engagement and you
have promo codes, you get
a hundred promo codes per
release. Don't just give away
the promo codes, because it's
so easy for bots to
syndicate that and scarf those
up. And it's just impersonal.
So what I ended up
doing was I went into
a Reddit, our app hookup.
It's one of the like
big subreddits for applications. And
what I would do would,
is I would write on
my developer blog. And then
I would say, Hey, I've
got 10 promo codes to
give away. If you read
this blog entry and, and
put a commentary, showing me
that you read the entry,
then I'll give you a
promo code. So not only
did that get rid of
the, get rid of the
box, it's a little bit
more manual, but then they
started knowing me as a
person instead of just this
trend, this unnamed company. And
then I gave them a
promo code and they were
probably more inclined to build
that up. But as far
as marketing, that's really all
I did was, you know,
browse forums and do this
interaction, do this form of
interaction with, I guess, other
gamers And, okay, so, so
the, you, you pushed it
from like developer to developer
or fan to fan, but
you didn't have a PR
agency. You didn't like, there's
lots of people who will
tell you that they will
promote your game or your
app for you. You know,
I would get those emails
saying that, Hey, we'll give
you so many downloads or
so many reviews for this
much money and get you
up there. But I, you
know, I've never, I never
bit those that those bullets,
I guess, and I just,
it was just really organic.
Oh, another thing I did
was, so the game went
viral on the web and
I'm on Twitter. You know,
Twitter blew up for a
good month with the game
and they always embed the
URL. So it was really
easy for me to search
for the game on Twitter.
And then I would, I
created an account for, for
the game as any person
should do. Right. And, and
now that almost that served
as a, a sales funnel
for me. So I would
reply in the context of
the game. So I wouldn't
say, Hey, there's an iOS
version. I'd say, Oh, you
know, every time you stoke
the fire, I take a
piece of your soul or
I'm going to send villagers.
I mean, I'm going to
send snarling beasts to kill
your villagers or something like
that. And they enjoyed that
interaction. And I built relationships
even with some video game
editors. I built relationships with
some editors from giant bomb
from Gamasutra from pocket tactics,
just, just by having that
interaction, that exchange, they didn't
really retweet me one or
two people would, but then
later on when, when sales
were low, I just emailed
them and saying, Hey, I'm
the guy that built a
dark room. And we spoke
on Twitter for, you know,
a couple of tweets. Is
there any way you can
help me out? Or, you
know, do you have any
tips? And I was able
to build those relationships too.
So it was all organic
and just, you know, know
me as a person, know
Michael as a person, and
then go from there. Well,
I liked that you were
saying that your Twitter account
stayed in the voice of
the game, the same kind
of writing the same style,
and it's got over a
thousand followers and people are
even now still interacting with
the Twitter account. So that's
a really good tip for
people to understand. Now, Michael,
your partner made the web
edition and you poured it
over to iOS and then
kind of made it your
own. But you worked at
a split with him financially.
Yeah. Yeah. We've he basically
gets effectively, it's a royalty,
I call it a royalty
payment. So he gets 50%
royalty on, on his creation.
And he handles a lot
of the legal aspects too.
So, you know, trademarks and
all that, all that good
stuff, because effectively it's, it's
his work and I'm paying
him royalties for that. And
what kind of downloads, if
you have you gotten, like,
there's really no way for
me as a consumer to
tell other than a lot
of ratings, I'm assuming maybe
one in 10 people rate.
So a couple of hundred
thousand. Yeah. It's 1%. So
1%. Yeah. So I actually
have a very high conversion
rate. So your conversion rate
for downloads is about one
to 2%. Okay. So let
me give you like a
little bit of ranking idea.
So you can, with that,
you can actually, how many
downloads a game is making.
Okay. So I'm at the,
at the top of your
category, specifically RPG and almost
pick RPG because it's more
stable being that, you know,
not very many RPGs come
out, at least relative to
like adventure games or puzzle
games or all that stuff.
But to get to the
number one spot at the
RPG category, you need to
have a four day moving
average. So it's based on
four days, you need to
have four days of downloads
at around three to 400
downloads a day. That's not
as big a number as
I would think. When you
see Apple people on stage
talking about how big the
app store is and billions
of this and millions of
that five, 600 downloads a
day for a couple of
days, but you, number one
Puts you in number one
in your category. What does
that mean? That the app
store isn't as big and
expansive and a moneymaking machine
as we thought it was.
So, so let me share
some revenue revenue numbers. Okay.
So where I'm at right
now, I'm, I'm averaging about
five to 600 downloads a
day right now, which is
nice. It's a good amount
of passive income. When I
was at the number one
spot I download, I got
20,000 downloads in one day
and I average 10 to
20,000 downloads for 18 days
straight in, in the paid
in the paid app store.
Okay. You didn't give any
money back. Did anyone say,
Oh, this sucks giving my
money back. There's a refund.
There's a way to get
refunds for apps. You just
report. You're supposed to like
report an issue. It's not
really obvious, but you report
an issue and say, not
app. Wasn't what I expected
to be. And they'll get
a refund that way, but
that's handled through them. Huge
deal for you. You didn't
think about that as a
bill? No, no, it wasn't.
It was, it's such a
small percentage and the legal
ones are review saying they
hate it. But as far
as that that's that's as
far as it goes. So,
so what happened was you'll,
you'll get 10 to 15,000
downloads a day at that
spot. So if you look
at the top 10 apps
in the paint section, that's
what they're bringing in every
day. Okay. So you're just
a 99 cent game. So we'll
figure a buck and you're
doing 10,000 downloads a day.
So you're figuring $10,000. 3000
of that goes to Apple,
3000 goes to Apple. So
then you have 7,000 left.
You split it with your
partner. That's 3,500. Then a
third of that is taxes
for your percent. 45% is
taxes. Yeah. So you pay
income tax plus a 15%
self employment tax. And I've
talked to two to three
CPAs and some they're like,
Oh, if you quote, if
you incorporate, then you're paying
taxes at the corporate level,
and then you can issue
yourself like a salary, but
then you pay taxes on
that. So there's, I'm maybe
able to save maybe three
to 4% in taxes with,
with the other side being
that, you know, I have
to handle minutes and, you
know, stock options and all
that good stuff, but the
government's going to get us
money and it's going to
be about 45%. Okay. So
let's just say 50%. So
10 grand, 10 grand, a
day, three grand Apple in
lots of people have partners.
So you think it's not
unusual that you have a
partner, so then you figure
3,500 cut that in half
1750, maybe some expenses, 1500
bucks a day. Yep. Cleared
for yourself for, and how
long did you continue to
do this? That was for
18 days for 18 days.
So then you're make 20,
25 grand. Yep. So I
can give you a grand
total. So for 14 months,
I'm taking the time that
it took to develop the
app. It took four months
to develop the app and
it took another five months
for it to hit the
number one spot and all
that. So I'm incorporating all
that time. My grand total
for downloads is 680,000 paid
downloads, 680,000 paid downloads. After
all of a sudden done
I'm netting, I'm netting, 19 cents
per download, which comes out
to about a bill rate
of $112 an hour. So
then you're, you're being, and
you're not, are you considering
support hours and upgrade hours?
And I'm saying that if
I ever had a full
time job, if I had
a full time job, 40
hours a week, 40 hours
a week, whatever, if I
landed a job that would
give me $112 an hour
as an independent, as an
independent contractor, you're making as
much as the number one
app in the app store.
So if you're a developer,
who's billing yourself out at
a hundred dollars an hour
in the U S you're
doing great. You got a
pretty good gig and you
might be thinking I'm going
to quit my job. Don't
do it as a paid
consultant to maybe take the
chance that I could be
one of the few people
who could have a number
one app, and I will
make effectively the same amount
of money without presumably without
healthcare, at least in at
least in the U S
yep. That's correct. So you
did not quit your job
and buy a Tesla is
what I'm hearing. Well, I
did quit my job. No.
What happened? No. So I
actually took a sabbatical. I
was on a, when I
started working on a darkroom,
I actually took a sabbatical
downsize, sold everything. I own
basically rage, quit everything. And
then I was like, then
I'd bench coated on everything
I possibly could for three
months, I got bored of
that. And then I worked
on the game. So it
was just a way, and
that's all covered in my
developer blog and blog. Well,
we'll be sure to include
that in the show notes
so people can get all
the, Yeah. And I'm fairly
candid with regards to my
emotions when I was going
through mentally, physically, you know,
all those things are on
there on top of, on
top of revenue numbers. So
I quit my job and
then made the number one
app. And, you know, I
took that gamble. Right. And
I bet on a bet
on black and I got
it and I'm pulling my
chips out. I've went back
to work. I'm now an
independent consultant. So that's nice.
So I, I do the
passive income is good. Right?
It's great passive income, but
it's not something I can,
I can readily a bet
on. So what happened was
about two months ago, and
this is crazy. This is
absolutely crazy. I'll fickle. The
market is, is that you
go from a number one
app. And I would, I,
I expected that there would
be some kind of leveling
off, right. Something that I
can count on saying that
I can count on these
downloads to be there for
a long time. But I
went back to where I
was before I ever went
viral. So I was remembered
I was celebrated. And then,
and then forgotten about two
months later, it was ridiculous.
So I was down to
a hundred downloads a day,
which is, which is nothing,
right? It's 20 bucks. And
during that time period, I
said, okay, I'm going to
go ahead and make the
app free. Just, just to,
you know, up the downloads,
maybe get a new insurgence
of people playing the game.
And I actually made it
to the number three spot
in the free app store
and enraged. Your people who'd
already paid. Nope, not at
all. They were, they were,
I'm more than happy to
see that. And I, I
stayed, I stayed free for
seven days. And in that
seven day period, I got
a million downloads. See, and
this is the thing, man.
It bugs me so much.
It's a buck, it's a
book, it's a buck. And
these cheap will not pay
a fricking dollar and they
will whinge about it. And
they will write blog posts
and books about how they
will not pay it. And
that you put it free
though. I had, I had
a windows windows, phone app,
very simple app that you
put your name on your
lock screen. So if you
lost your phone, you know,
it would show you your,
your name on the lock
screen. And it's very well
designed. It's lovely. And people
can download it. I had
300 downloads, 300 people paid
99 cents. I got frustrated. I
said, well, I guess I'm
not going to quit my
job. I made it free
600,000 downloads later. Someone's like,
you should put ads in
the thing. I'm like, you
know, I should just put
my angry face in it,
shaking my fist at the
people. So that's an, I
have add numbers too. So
I went through that mental
exercise. You put ads in
it? No, no. I was
thinking about it. I was
like, okay, what if I
put ads? What if I
could go back in time?
And I know the numbers
now. Right? So a free
up will literally make an
order of magnitude more downloads
in a paid up. So
I was like, okay, if,
if I was a free
up and I had like
ad mob and I took
their impressions and click through
rates, I talked to a
few of my friends, got
their click through rates. And
I was like, okay, let's
see what this would look
like. So your click through
rates are about 28% to
80%. I don't know how
people get 80% click. There
is it's insane. But I've
heard that you're a gain
that you're presumably engrossed in.
Yes. Yeah. So one thing
that, you know, it, it
breaks the spirit of the
game, but if I were
going to do it at
80% click through rates, it's
like being a number one
app at two bucks. So
you were making 19 cents on
a dollar game. Yeah. Per
person. And that rubs, then
that revenue is once yes.
You could make more than
that money. You could basically
make 40 cents on a person.
If, if you have high
click through rates, if you
have a high click through
rate, presumably Well, yeah. You
know what I mean? Just
like over the life of
the time that the person
spends with the game. Yeah.
It's basically, so the thing
is you don't get very
much money at all. For
impressions. You could have a
bazillion impressions if that's a
real word, but it won't
actually gain you any money.
It's only if they clicked
you actually make money. So
in retrospect, after having gone
through all that you did,
are you happy with pricing
at 99 cents? Or should you
have made it free? I'm
happy without pricing in an
Island, 99 cents is equivalent to
having a click through rate
about 58%. Okay. So it
was, there's more satisfaction in
the game is the spirit
of the game. It would
be weird with a flashing,
you know, download candy crush
at the bottom of your
game. Yes, that's correct. That's
correct. So, and that's the
thing is, so the question
is how are people making
so much money in the
app store? How are these
people making an app purchases?
If you're going to do
a free game and you're
going to have an app
purchases, don't put it in
that purchase to remove ads
because that's not really going
to get you anything you
want to put in our
purchasing there that add to
the experience like a cool
new weapon or faster bike
or something like that. That's
what people want to buy.
And that's how they can,
that's how you can get
them to convert over, to,
to having an app purchases.
But if you're one of
those developers that says, Oh,
I'm going to put ads,
and then I'm going to
put it in app purchase
that removes the ads it's
not worth doing. Right. And
there definitely is though, I
would say a pretty considerable
backlash going on right now
against in app purchases. I
feel like virtually every game
that I truly enjoy is
a grind. I just got
this great game called Drexel's,
it's a little starch. It's
basically tiny tower for star
Trek. And you know, you
get into it and you
realize they've literally set the
pacing of the game up,
such that you need to
pay five bucks to get
over the hump. It would
be like playing a dark
room for a half an
hour and finding out that
you just cannot make an
economy, produce the things you
need to produce to succeed
without paying $5. Right. And
then the frustration is just
let me buy the game.
Just let me enjoy the
game. Don't nag me. Right.
Just tell me, just tell
me how much you want.
Right. Just give me the,
give me the number for
the coaches that will let
me play the game without
a crippled experience. Right. And,
and that's, you know, that's
unfortunate and that's why we
chose not to do an
app purchase. What do you
feel about the way the
flappy bird guy quit? And
did you, do you think
you relate to him in
his frustrations with his situation?
Alright, so a couple of
things about the platform guy,
we're actually, it's so cool
to actually be able to
say this. I feel like
an impossible, you know, I
go through the imposter syndrome
doing this. We're actually in
a, like a private group
where I can actually talk
with the flappy bird guy.
I can, I can actually
talk with them. It's really
cool. Secret, like Amex black
card that you get when
you get to be a
number one app, they're like,
here's the, the champagne room
back here and you can
talk to them. I got
invited to a gaming group
and he's part of it
too. So, you know, and
he talked about a swing
copter when that came out
also. So it was really
cool, but bird sat in
a void for eight months
before it ever went viral,
Same thing. So these things
don't go viral. Like my
app, my echo that I
did with Greg shackles, you
know, it's doing okay. But
somehow we just thought that
on, on its merits, the
world would recognize our, our
brilliance and it just doesn't
work like that. Does it,
It doesn't work like that.
You have to build it,
you have to market it.
You have to build connections.
You have to do media,
everything, you know, all those
things have to come together
and then maybe just maybe
you'll hit the lottery. So
it's really difficult from that
standpoint. No flabby bird guy
had to deal with clones.
Have you had to deal
with clones as well? People
copying your idea. Yeah, I
have. And the frustrating part
is that it's open source.
So people can actually go
online to the, to the
get hub repo. And there,
the clones are literally phone
gap, app implementations of ADR
or the web version. Oh
no. You know, it's, it's
one of those things where
Michael made it open source
for. So you can create
derivative works and create your
own experiences. But what people
are doing is cloning the
repo, wrapping it inside of
a phone gap and them
putting it out there. And
the, and the real tough
part is that the, the
app went viral in a
week, right? So I had
no time to prepare for
that. We, we submit our
trademark papers that took two
months, and then we have
to wait six months for
people to contest it. And
then we're given the trademark.
So during that time period,
you know, and I've, and
I've tried to bring, bring
them down on Google play.
I've tried to bring down
on iOS and tried to
bring it on windows phone
and all the, all the
forms pretty much say, we
need to trademark number for
you to contest this. And
you can't, you know, you
can say, well, we have
a common law trademark reproductive
protected based on that. It
works on iOS because we're
a number one app, right?
So they've taken attention to
us, but the other app
stores, you know, we have
to, we're kind of stuck
until we get those trademarks
or make the official port
and all that good stuff.
Now, we're not trying to
dissuade people from getting involved,
but we want people to
have their eyes wide open
when they get involved in
mobile app development. And, you
know, the kinds of stuff
that Greg and I had
trouble with were, you know,
writing the thing was 20,
30% of our time, but
business, business, checking, and LLCs
and, you know, incorporations and
trademarks and all that stuff,
all that stuff. That's not
fun that doesn't compile. It
takes up your time. Doesn't
it? And, and, you know,
the, our initial text, my
initial text from my book,
Michael were like, Hey, here's
200 bucks for the month.
And then suddenly I have
to send them a, you
know, a $200,000 check. And
he's like, I think I
need a business account. Like
yeah, you do Well. And
how does that work for
you? If you're not partners,
then you have to think
about that. Like Greg and
I, we made an LLC
made it, you know, half
and half. In this case,
you have an expense to
a contractor effectively, your 10
99 in him, your 10
99 is a tax form
for folks that aren't from
the States where you're going
to have to basically say,
one of my vendors provided
me some value in the
order of $200,000. Yeah. And
the frustrating part is that
he's in Canada. So, so
I have a CPA that
handles all of it. I'm
glad for that part, but,
but it, you know, it's
a wire transfer. It's $50
for the wire transfer. It
costs him, it cost him
another $50 to pull the
money out from. And it's,
you know, it's just, it's
so weird. It's so weird.
And again, it happened so
quickly. We, we just had
to create the partnership. So
that's going to happen hopefully
next year. And, you know,
we can work, work through
that. And it's like, if
I die, or if he
dies, you know, how does
the money get distributed? All
that stuff. We haven't worked
it out. We have an
email that says, yeah, I
get 50%. Now you have
another app, a prequel pre-qual
slash sequel. I was just
updated a couple of days
ago called the Ensign. That's
correct. Is this a, is
this another, it's just a
money grab or is this
a new story? How do
I look at this application?
So I had, I had
to be very careful not
to make it a money
grab because even with the
fans that you have, you
know, you can, it's so
easy to betray their trust
and it's happened a little
bit. So the, the incident
is, is a, a pretty
cool, it's a prequel to
a dark room and it
takes care of it talks
about the events that happened
directly before dark room. Now
it is a remix of
the engine that's currently in
a dark room. So there
were some aspects of that,
but the narrative is the
additional piece that adds that
extra component to it. So
you get a, that world
that you traversed, you have
a much more expensive world,
more intricate, Dungeons, different types
of gear and some additional
new game components in storyline,
but that's effectively what that
is. Do this on your
own. Did you partner again
with Michael? This was, this
was on my own. This
is inspiration that I had.
I really loved traversing the
dusty path. And I was
thinking about, Hey, is there,
is there a good way
where I can set it
up to where I can
make this really hard and
you have to play it.
It's like Pramata and a
real, real good roguelike like
net hack or something like
that. And then, and then
build upon that, that narrative
that looks like You're at
the beginning of the grind
on this one, because you've
got a hundred or so
200 ratings as opposed to
21,000. So it hasn't really
been discovered yet. Has it?
So another, some more tips.
I love these steps. Okay.
So one thing with the
ratings, your ratings reset whenever
you do in your release.
And when I, what I
mean by that is that
yeah, it gets archived, but
the front page or the
app store page only shows
the average, the current ratings
for your new app Website
right here. And I see
current version 24 ratings, all
versions in aggregate 183. Right?
Exactly. Exactly. So what happens
is that when an ADR
released, I lost all the
like 15,000 ratings that we
had and I was back
to zero. Now, the good
news is that if you
had a lot of bad
ratings, that's a great way
to sell those under the,
under the rug. It's also,
it's bad news. If you
have a lot of good
names, good ratings, because get
settled in, I mean, you
shouldn't necessarily be releasing every
week If you're low on
the app store, go ahead
and Okay. But if your
number one app, unless it's
a bug and really think
about it, right, We didn't
touch the game for 18
days. And that was frustrating.
So what happened though, was
that we had all that
media coverage come in, you
know, new Yorker, the new
Yorker contacted us Huffington post
business, insider all. It was,
it was crazy. And we
would do as many interviews
where we could. And then
we got to a point
where we're like, why don't
we just communicate directly with
the fans? So if you
beat the game, you get
developer commentary from both Michael
and I, and we have
an immediate, we have a
direct tunnel and we're increasing
engagement. We have a direct
tunnel to the fans. We
speak to them. We talk
about the development of the
game, both of our stories,
who we are in audio,
or in text, audio game,
in audio, You win the
game. It was just entirely
text-based. And it unlocks a
special world where I can
have you talking in the
background and giving me like
a commentary track, like a
DVD. Yes, exactly. And then
in the, at the end
of that commentary tack, we
request that you write the
game. And then on top
of that, we, I have
a plug in there for
the incident and he's got
a, I've got a plug
in there for gridline his
new game that he's built.
Michael's new game that he's
built and that's web based
right now, but he's working
on maybe doing a Kickstarter
for another game, but that's
how we increase engagement. We
were to the point, it's
like, well, this isn't, this
is in the hands of
a million people. Why don't
we talk directly to them?
I mean, that's, it's so
easy. You know, there's a,
there's a really great article
that I read recently, and
I'm going to put links
to everything, including Michael's new
game and both of your
games on the show notes.
And this article was called
1000 true fans. Have you
familiar with this article? The
idea is, if you are
a creative, I'm using a
musician, a game maker, an
artist, what you need are
a thousand true fans, capital
T capital F. And what
you need those fans to
do is give you a
hundred dollars a year and
a hundred dollars a year
times a thousand people, you
get a hundred thousand dollars
and you can have a
very, very comfortable life. So
if they buy $1,100 of
anything from you, whether it
be t-shirts or swag or
games, or in app purchases
or mugs, whatever, you just
need a thousand. Right. I
think that's a really interesting
idea. The technique that we
used was that in, in
the game itself, we just
request, look, the game's a
dollar. If you pay, if
you feel that you've underpaid,
just gift the game to
someone else. Cause it's so
easy to go into the
app store, go to the
share button and gift any,
any app. That is a
really great idea. So you're
basically saying, Hey, you love
the game. You want to
give us a pile of
money. Don't give a friend
the game. Right, right. That's
really cool. And a couple
of my associates, they're like,
I put a dollar on
the table and say, buy
this game and they won't
take the dollar. Right. They'll
just go in and buy
the game. But the fact
that someone would go out
of their way to say,
here's a dollar buy the
game. They wouldn't say, okay,
I'll just buy the game.
You have, you know, that
word of mouth is so
powerful. So, so powerful. Very
cool. Well, this is really
exciting to talk to you
and thanks for being so
transparent and really giving people
who were thinking about getting
involved or maybe are in
the app store right now
and insight into what a
number one game looks like
when a, when they're not
necessarily one of them, number
one themselves. Right. So I
have a shotgun list of
like tips. Let's hear if
you've got them. Okay. That'll
be our closer. All right.
So your ranking is completely,
completely based on the number
of downloads. It's a four
day moving average. All right.
So that's, that's kind of
like your baseline. If you,
if you have a good
four day moving average and
it's not spikes, it's, it's
consistent. That will help you
ranking, okay. Reviews are sorted
by the number of stars
and by link. So if
you have a five star
review, that's really long. That's
awesome. But if there's a
one star review that rant,
that's bad news. If it's
a, if it's a one
star review, that's really short,
it will be lower on
the rank. So it's ranked
by five star and then
LinkedIn, then there's some threshold
where, where the, the length
of review will Trump, the
number of stars that are
in there. Okay. Okay. So
the top five apps in
the paid section are, are
averaging about 5,000 downloads a
day. Okay. The top five
apps in the free section
are, are averaging 10 times
that so 50,000 downloads a
day. So it's a, it's
an order of magnitude for,
for those things. So just
be aware of that, your
review conversion rate one to
2%. So if you look
at the apps in the
app store and they have
a review me button in
their app, you can kind
of gauge how many total
downloads they have based on
the number of reviews they
have. Just multiply that by
a hundred and you get
a good feel for what
they have. Timing releases important.
If you're a number one
app don't release. If you're,
if you're lonely app store,
just, just release often and
pick the perfect moment to
display the review button, don't
nag them, pick that perfect
moment, increase engagement. And that
purchases don't do the remove
ads in that purchase. Do
the one that lets you
have a cool, awesome stuff.
Add mops. You're looking at
15 cents per click through anywhere
from a 25% to 85%
click through rate. So think
about that. A trademark issues
and clones. If you get
to that point, that's a
good problem to have, and
you just have to deal
with it. It's not easy,
but it is what it
is. A media coverage. Doesn't
help. It's the word of
mouth that helps so much
more than media coverage. I've
actually for Twitter, every 10,000,
if someone with 10,000 followers
retweets about your game or
tweets about your game, you
can expect five to 10
downloads. So if someone at
a hundred thousand followers, you're
going to get X number
of downloads based on that.
Okay. That's kind of how
I've averaged that out to
engagement and personal connection are
the most important thing you
find that like, like you
said, you find is at
a thousand fans and you
engage with them that you
connect with them on a
personal level. They'll love you
for that. A UK, U
S is the largest market,
UK, Australia, and Canada, or
a fifth, the size they're
the next largest markets. Let's
see engagement on a personal
level pricing on your, on
your, on your app. Set
it at a, if you're
going to do a paid
up, is that at a
high price, like one 99,
two 99. In fact, play
around with your prices. If
you're at the top of
your category, increase the price
because the chances of you
making the top of overall
is very hard. If you're
at the top of your
category, go ahead and increase
the price, play around with
it until you find a
good plasticity to it. I
guess less density ratio sales
are good. There's so many
syndications out there that will
actually pick up the sale
and advertise for you. I've
gotten a ton of downloads
by setting the price to
a one 99 and then
dropping it down to it
all. You can't do it
too often, but that's a
T that's a technique that
you can use. When I
was at number one in
the app store on the
top grossing apps, I was
number 83. So that puts
into perspective. How many, how
many other apps, the AAA
titles, what, they're, what they're
actually making Minecraft. If you're
gonna do Minecraft, I kinda
did the averages at 10,000
downloads a day, 365 days
at seven bucks, a pop
you're making 25 million annually. And
they're the number 28 top-grossing
app. So that puts into
perspective what the, what the
number one app, the top
grossing app makes it's massive,
massive amounts of money. And
of course, this is all
like speculation based on what
I've, what I've observed. And
then curve drops very quickly
and drops extremely quickly. The
number one apps they have,
they're making huge amount of
money. And then the difference
between like the one 50
and one 51 could be
a few dollars. Fantastic. I
hope so. I hope you're
going to write that summary
up on your, your developer
blog. And we will send
everyone there from the show
notes. So they get all
the details and the great
summary of all these tips.
There you go. Thanks so
much. This has been another
episode of Hanselminutes and we'll
see you again next week.
.